A Semantic Markup Technique Based on Ontology Polysystem

Evgeny Cherkashin, Kristina Paskal, Igor Bychkov

The described investigation proposes an approach to overcome known problem of site developers' participation in the real development of semantic web content.  Most of developers are interested in rather practical aspects of site functioning: publishing data, earning money.  The site integration in a way of the semantic web is too hard to be used in a regular site maintenance.  This results in the necessity of development of site content management software integrated by means of semantic web as knowledge acquisition systems, where developers and users have to play a role of an information source for a system-integrated decision-making engine inducing formal knowledge on the base of data analysis.

A general idea of an approach to representation and induction of a semantic markup (logical layer) for description of the text content (Internet sites, legal documents, and so on) is being described.  The logical layer is generated on the base of analysis of changes introduced by user.  The changes of the text and the logical layer are analyzed.  The variant of the interpretation (e.g., error correction of a value or a new statement definition) of the changes is determined by means of user interview.  The interpretation also depends on the results of analysis of user behavior, e.g., patterns of transitions between various kinds of documents.  The theoretical basis of the technique is to use of a polysystem representation of ontologies for the domain.  The presentation is a hierarchically fibered structure of concepts and relations, which are mapped between fibers by means of interpretation relations.

An automation of document preparation activities in a notary office has been chosen as a testing ground for the technologies under development.  The documents that are originated and used there have an important common property.  The documents contain information which is represented as structural and nonstructural data equally likely.
